Effective February 4, 2025
- 1 -
HONORABLE CYNTHIA BASHANT, CHIEF JUDGE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
STANDING ORDER FOR CIVIL CASES
Unless otherwise ordered by the Court, counsel and pro se litigants are expected to
follow the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the Local Rules for the Southern
District of California ("Civil Local Rules"), the Electronic Case Filing
Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual ("ECF Manual"), and any other
applicable rules. The Civil Local Rules and the ECF Manual are available on this
district's website: casd.uscourts.gov. Failure to comply with the applicable orders
and rules, including the ECF Manual, may result in the Court striking non-complying
documents from the record pursuant to ECF Manual Section 2(a) and imposing
sanctions pursuant to Civil Local Rule 83.1.
1. Communications with Chambers
A. Telephone Calls
Parties seeking a hearing date for a motion must follow Section 4.B
below. In light of the Court's procedure for selecting hearing dates,
telephone calls to chambers are rarely necessary. Such calls may be
made only by counsel with knowledge of the case. Calls from
secretaries, legal assistants, paralegals, or parties represented by
counsel are prohibited.
Court personnel cannot interpret orders, discuss the merits of a case, or
give legal advice, including advice on procedural matters. Court
personnel also will not speculate as to when an order will be issued for
a particular motion or ex parte application.
When calling chambers, be prepared to identify your matter by case
name and case number so your call can be directed to the appropriate
law clerk. If your call is not answered, you may leave a voicemail,
including your name, contact information, case number, and a detailed
message.
- 2 -
B. Emails or Letters
Emails or letters to chambers are prohibited unless otherwise
authorized by the Court.
2. General Filing Requirements
The parties must comply with all of the formatting requirements in Civil Local
Rule 5.1 unless otherwise ordered by the Court. In addition, the parties must
scan any documents, including exhibits, to be filed on the docket using Optical
Character Recognition ("OCR"). The OCR requirement only applies to
parties with electronic-case-filing privileges.
The Court's e-file email account (efile_bashant@casd.uscourts.gov) must
only be used to lodge or submit proposed orders, required trial documents, or
other documents requested by the Court. It is not to be used for
communication purposes (e.g., asking questions).
3. Discovery
Counsel must contact the magistrate judge's chambers directly for all matters
pertaining to discovery. Any objection to a discovery ruling of the magistrate
judge must be filed as a motion pursuant to Civil Local Rule 7.1.
4. Motion Practice
A. Conference of Counsel Prior to Filing Noticed Motions
Any party contemplating the filing of any noticed motion before this
Court must first contact opposing counsel to discuss thoroughly-
preferably in person-the substance of the contemplated motion and
any potential resolution. The conference must take place at least seven
days prior to the filing of the motion. If the parties are unable to reach
a resolution that eliminates the need to file the anticipated motion,
counsel for the moving party must include in the notice of motion a
statement to the following effect: "This motion is made following the
conference of counsel that took place on [date]."
- 3 -
The only exceptions to this meet-and-confer requirement are: (1) in
cases where the plaintiff is appearing pro se and is not an attorney;
(2) for applications for temporary restraining orders or preliminary
injunctions; and (3) motions and cross-motions for summary judgment.
Ex parte applications, which have separate requirements below, and
joint motions are exempt from this rule as they are not noticed motions.
B. Hearing Dates
Parties filing a noticed motion may choose any Friday between thirty
and sixty days from the motion's filing date. If the preferred Friday
is a federal holiday, then the filing party may select the following
Monday as the hearing date for the motion. Do not contact chambers
for a hearing date. This rule only supersedes Civil Local Rule 7.1(b).
Parties must also include the following language in the caption of their
motions directly underneath the hearing date, unless notified otherwise
by the Court: "NO ORAL ARGUMENT UNLESS ORDERED BY
THE COURT." The Court may resolve motions on the papers
submitted and without oral argument in accordance with Civil Local
Rule 7.1(d)(1). Consequently, the hearing date does not indicate a date
when appearances are necessary; rather, it sets the briefing schedule for
the motion. As such, the filing party must not indicate a hearing time
on its motion. The schedule for filing briefs must be in accordance with
Civil Local Rule 7.1(e), unless ordered otherwise by the Court.
Parties must contact the assigned magistrate judge's chambers for
hearing and scheduling dates needed for cases referred-either by
operation of local rule or by order-to the magistrate judge. See Civil
Local Rules 72.2, 72.3.
- 4 -
C. Oral Argument
i. Procedure
If the Court decides to hear oral argument, it will issue an order,
normally two weeks in advance, setting the matter for oral
argument.
For motions with numerous references to technical terminology
(e.g., in patent cases), one week prior to the motion hearing, the
parties must email to chambers (not to be filed) a list of pertinent
technical terms and/or proper names, the purpose of which is to
assist the court reporter in the transcription of the hearing.
ii. Junior Attorneys
Upon request, the Court will hold oral argument on a noticed
motion handled by an attorney with no more than five years of
experience. A request for oral argument under this provision
should be included in a party's moving papers or opposition.
Alternatively, a party may file the request separately before the
Court rules on the motion.
D. Proposed Orders
Any proposed orders must be submitted in Word format simultaneously
with all motions. In accordance with Section 2(h) of the ECF Manual,
proposed orders must not contain the name and law firm information of
the filing party, and must not contain the word "proposed" in the
caption. Counsel must email proposed orders to opposing counsel and
to efile_bashant@casd.uscourts.gov, and include the case name, case
number, and docket number in the subject line of the email. The case
number in the subject line must be in the following format, including
hyphens: 21-cv-0270-BAS.
Proposed orders or other documents requiring the judge's signature
must not be filed on the docket.
- 5 -
E. Briefing
When the same party is noticing multiple motions for the same hearing
date, the motions must be briefed together in one memorandum of
points and authorities. If multiple parties are moving for substantially
the same relief, they must make every effort to obtain the same hearing
date for their motions.
F. Sur-Replies and Notices of Supplemental Authority
Sur-replies and notices of supplemental authority may not be filed
unless leave of court has been granted.
G. Motions and Cross-Motions for Summary Judgment
If upon being served with a summary-judgment motion an opposing
party determines that it intends to file a cross-motion, that party must
file an ex parte application requesting a consolidated briefing schedule
well in advance of the due date for the opposition to the first-filed
summary-judgment motion. The Court requires no duplication of
briefing and exhibits.
H. Exhibits
The parties must avoid duplication of exhibits as much as possible. All
exhibits submitted in support of motions should be excerpted to include
only relevant material. All exhibits must be clearly labeled, dated, and
indexed.
J. Courtesy Copies
No courtesy copies are necessary for any filings.
K. Failure to Oppose
An opposing party's failure to file an opposition to any motion may be
construed as consent to the granting of the motion pursuant to Civil
Local Rule 7.1(f)(3)(c).
- 12 -
12. Telephonic Appearances
Telephonic appearances will be permitted only in emergency circumstances
upon court approval. If a party needs to appear telephonically before this
Court, he or she must contact chambers immediately upon learning of the
emergency and leave a voicemail. Upon reviewing the voicemail, the Court
will contact the party. The party needing to appear telephonically must,
nonetheless, arrange to have a colleague appear on his or her behalf.
13. Trial Practice
A. Electronic Equipment for the Courtroom
The Court provides the following audio/visual equipment: (1) monitors;
(2) an overhead projector; and (3) computer connections. Counsel
should make his or her own arrangements for their respective needs.
Counsel should contact the Court's courtroom deputy to arrange a time
to allow counsel to review and set up equipment for trial.
E. Bench Trial
Fourteen days before trial, counsel must serve and file proposed
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. An electronic copy must
also be emailed to efile_bashant@casd.uscourts.gov in Word format.
For a bench trial, the parties must submit a copy of the trial exhibits to
chambers in an electronic-media format (e.g., USB flash drive) one day
before trial is set to begin.
